[Music]
[Music] then Joshua gathered all the tribes of
then Joshua gathered all the tribes of
then Joshua gathered all the tribes of Israel to Shechem and called for the
Israel to Shechem and called for the
Israel to Shechem and called for the elders of Israel for their heads for
elders of Israel for their heads for
elders of Israel for their heads for their judges and for their officers and
their judges and for their officers and
their judges and for their officers and they presented themselves before God
they presented themselves before God
they presented themselves before God Joshua said to all the people thus says
Joshua said to all the people thus says
Joshua said to all the people thus says the Lord God of Israel your father's
the Lord God of Israel your father's
the Lord God of Israel your father's including tira the father of Abraham and
including tira the father of Abraham and
including tira the father of Abraham and the father of nahor dwelt on the other
the father of nahor dwelt on the other
the father of nahor dwelt on the other side of the river in old times and they
side of the river in old times and they
side of the river in old times and they served other gods then I took your
served other gods then I took your
served other gods then I took your father Abraham from the other side of
father Abraham from the other side of
father Abraham from the other side of the river led him throughout all the
the river led him throughout all the
the river led him throughout all the land of Canaan and multiplied his
land of Canaan and multiplied his
land of Canaan and multiplied his descendants and gave him Isaac through
descendants and gave him Isaac through
descendants and gave him Isaac through Isaac
Isaac
Isaac I gave Jacob and Esau to ISA
I gave Jacob and Esau to ISA
I gave Jacob and Esau to ISA I gave the mountains of Seir to possess
I gave the mountains of Seir to possess
I gave the mountains of Seir to possess but Jacob and his children went down to
but Jacob and his children went down to
but Jacob and his children went down to Egypt also I sent Moses and Aaron and I
Egypt also I sent Moses and Aaron and I
Egypt also I sent Moses and Aaron and I plagued Egypt according to what I did
plagued Egypt according to what I did
plagued Egypt according to what I did among them
afterward I brought you out then I
afterward I brought you out then I brought your father out of Egypt and you
brought your father out of Egypt and you
brought your father out of Egypt and you came to the sea and the Egyptians
came to the sea and the Egyptians
came to the sea and the Egyptians pursued your father's with chariots and
pursued your father's with chariots and
pursued your father's with chariots and horsemen to the Red Sea so they cried
horsemen to the Red Sea so they cried
horsemen to the Red Sea so they cried out to the Lord
out to the Lord
out to the Lord and he put darkness between you and the
and he put darkness between you and the
and he put darkness between you and the Egyptians brought the sea upon them and
Egyptians brought the sea upon them and
Egyptians brought the sea upon them and covered them
covered them
covered them and your eyes saw what I did in Egypt
and your eyes saw what I did in Egypt
and your eyes saw what I did in Egypt then you dwelt in the wilderness a long
then you dwelt in the wilderness a long
then you dwelt in the wilderness a long time and I brought you into the land of
time and I brought you into the land of
time and I brought you into the land of the amorite s-- who dwelt on the other
the amorite s-- who dwelt on the other
the amorite s-- who dwelt on the other side of the Jordan and they fought with
side of the Jordan and they fought with
side of the Jordan and they fought with you but I gave them into your head that
you but I gave them into your head that
you but I gave them into your head that you might possess their land and I
you might possess their land and I
you might possess their land and I destroyed them from before you then
destroyed them from before you then
destroyed them from before you then balak the son of zippor king of Moab
balak the son of zippor king of Moab
balak the son of zippor king of Moab arose to make war against Israel and
arose to make war against Israel and
arose to make war against Israel and sent and called Balaam the son of Beor
sent and called Balaam the son of Beor
sent and called Balaam the son of Beor to curse you but I would not listen to
to curse you but I would not listen to
to curse you but I would not listen to pay them therefore he continued to bless
pay them therefore he continued to bless
pay them therefore he continued to bless you
you
you so I delivered you out of his hand
so I delivered you out of his hand
so I delivered you out of his hand [Music]
[Music]
[Music] then you went over the Jordan and came
then you went over the Jordan and came
then you went over the Jordan and came to Jericho and the men of Jericho fought
to Jericho and the men of Jericho fought
to Jericho and the men of Jericho fought against you also the amorite the
against you also the amorite the
against you also the amorite the parasites the Canaanites the Hittites
parasites the Canaanites the Hittites
parasites the Canaanites the Hittites the girgashites the highlights and the
the girgashites the highlights and the
the girgashites the highlights and the jebusites but I delivered them into your
jebusites but I delivered them into your
jebusites but I delivered them into your hand
hand
hand I sent the Hornet before you which drove
I sent the Hornet before you which drove
I sent the Hornet before you which drove them out from before you also the two
them out from before you also the two
them out from before you also the two kings of the amorite but not with your
kings of the amorite but not with your
kings of the amorite but not with your sword or with your bow I have given you
sword or with your bow I have given you
sword or with your bow I have given you a land for which you did not labor and
a land for which you did not labor and
a land for which you did not labor and cities which you did not build and you
cities which you did not build and you
cities which you did not build and you dwell in them
dwell in them
dwell in them you eat up the vineyards and olive
you eat up the vineyards and olive
you eat up the vineyards and olive groves which you did not plant now
groves which you did not plant now
groves which you did not plant now therefore
therefore
therefore fear of the Lord
fear of the Lord
fear of the Lord serve Him in sincerity and in truth and
serve Him in sincerity and in truth and
serve Him in sincerity and in truth and put away the gods which your father's
put away the gods which your father's
put away the gods which your father's served and the other side of the river
served and the other side of the river
served and the other side of the river and in Egypt
and in Egypt
and in Egypt serve the Lord and if it seems evil to
serve the Lord and if it seems evil to
serve the Lord and if it seems evil to you to serve the Lord choose for
you to serve the Lord choose for
you to serve the Lord choose for yourselves this day whom you will serve
yourselves this day whom you will serve
yourselves this day whom you will serve whether the gods which your father's
whether the gods which your father's
whether the gods which your father's served that were on the other side of
served that were on the other side of
served that were on the other side of the river or the gods of the amorite in
the river or the gods of the amorite in
the river or the gods of the amorite in whose land you dwell but as for me and
whose land you dwell but as for me and
whose land you dwell but as for me and my house we will serve the Lord so the
my house we will serve the Lord so the
my house we will serve the Lord so the people answered far be it from us that
people answered far be it from us that
people answered far be it from us that we should forsake the Lord to serve
we should forsake the Lord to serve
we should forsake the Lord to serve other gods for the Lord our God is he
other gods for the Lord our God is he
other gods for the Lord our God is he who brought us and our fathers up out of
who brought us and our fathers up out of
who brought us and our fathers up out of the land of Egypt from the house of
the land of Egypt from the house of
the land of Egypt from the house of bondage who did those great signs in our
bondage who did those great signs in our
bondage who did those great signs in our sight and preserved us in all the way
sight and preserved us in all the way
sight and preserved us in all the way that we went and among all the people
that we went and among all the people
that we went and among all the people through whom we passed and the Lord
through whom we passed and the Lord
through whom we passed and the Lord drove out from before us all the people
drove out from before us all the people
drove out from before us all the people including the amma writes who dwelt in
including the amma writes who dwelt in
including the amma writes who dwelt in the land we also will serve the Lord for
the land we also will serve the Lord for
the land we also will serve the Lord for he
he
he is our God you cannot serve the Lord for
is our God you cannot serve the Lord for
is our God you cannot serve the Lord for he is a holy God he is a jealous God he
he is a holy God he is a jealous God he
he is a holy God he is a jealous God he will not forgive your transgressions nor
will not forgive your transgressions nor
will not forgive your transgressions nor your sins if you forsake the Lord and
your sins if you forsake the Lord and
your sins if you forsake the Lord and serve foreign gods then he will turn and
serve foreign gods then he will turn and
serve foreign gods then he will turn and do you harm and consume you after he has
do you harm and consume you after he has
do you harm and consume you after he has done you good no but we will serve the
done you good no but we will serve the
done you good no but we will serve the Lord you are witnesses against
Lord you are witnesses against
Lord you are witnesses against yourselves that you have chosen the Lord
yourselves that you have chosen the Lord
yourselves that you have chosen the Lord for yourselves to serve Him we are
for yourselves to serve Him we are
for yourselves to serve Him we are witnesses
witnesses
witnesses now therefore put away the foreign gods
now therefore put away the foreign gods
now therefore put away the foreign gods which are among
which are among
which are among and incline your heart to the Lord God
and incline your heart to the Lord God
and incline your heart to the Lord God of Israel
the Lord our God we will serve and his
the Lord our God we will serve and his voice we will obey so Joshua made a
voice we will obey so Joshua made a
voice we will obey so Joshua made a covenant with the people that day and
covenant with the people that day and
covenant with the people that day and made for them a statute and an ordinance
made for them a statute and an ordinance
made for them a statute and an ordinance in Shechem then Joshua wrote these words
in Shechem then Joshua wrote these words
in Shechem then Joshua wrote these words in the book of the law of God and he
in the book of the law of God and he
in the book of the law of God and he took a large stone and set it up there
took a large stone and set it up there
took a large stone and set it up there under the oak that was by the sanctuary
under the oak that was by the sanctuary
under the oak that was by the sanctuary of the Lord and Joshua said to all the
of the Lord and Joshua said to all the
of the Lord and Joshua said to all the people behold this stone shall be a
people behold this stone shall be a
people behold this stone shall be a witness to us for it has heard all the
witness to us for it has heard all the
witness to us for it has heard all the words of the Lord which he spoke to us
words of the Lord which he spoke to us
words of the Lord which he spoke to us it shall therefore be a witness to you
it shall therefore be a witness to you
it shall therefore be a witness to you lest you deny your God so Joshua let the
lest you deny your God so Joshua let the
lest you deny your God so Joshua let the people to part each to his own
people to part each to his own
people to part each to his own inheritance
inheritance
inheritance now it came to pass after these things
now it came to pass after these things
now it came to pass after these things that Joshua the son of nun the servant
that Joshua the son of nun the servant
that Joshua the son of nun the servant of the Lord died being 110 years old and
of the Lord died being 110 years old and
of the Lord died being 110 years old and they buried him within the border of his
they buried him within the border of his
they buried him within the border of his inheritance at Timnath Cielo which is in
inheritance at Timnath Cielo which is in
inheritance at Timnath Cielo which is in the mountains of Ephraim on the north
the mountains of Ephraim on the north
the mountains of Ephraim on the north side of Mount gash
side of Mount gash
side of Mount gash Israel served the Lord all the days of
Israel served the Lord all the days of
Israel served the Lord all the days of Joshua and all the days of the elders
Joshua and all the days of the elders
Joshua and all the days of the elders who outlived Joshua who had known all
who outlived Joshua who had known all
who outlived Joshua who had known all the works of the Lord which he had done
the works of the Lord which he had done
the works of the Lord which he had done for Israel the bones of Joseph which the
for Israel the bones of Joseph which the
for Israel the bones of Joseph which the children of Israel had brought up out of
children of Israel had brought up out of
children of Israel had brought up out of Egypt they buried at Shechem and the
Egypt they buried at Shechem and the
Egypt they buried at Shechem and the plot of ground which Jacob had bought
plot of ground which Jacob had bought
plot of ground which Jacob had bought from the sons of Haman the father of
from the sons of Haman the father of
from the sons of Haman the father of Shechem for 100 pieces of silver and
Shechem for 100 pieces of silver and
Shechem for 100 pieces of silver and which had become an inheritance of the
which had become an inheritance of the
which had become an inheritance of the children of Joseph and Eleazar the son
children of Joseph and Eleazar the son
children of Joseph and Eleazar the son of Aaron died they buried him in a hill
of Aaron died they buried him in a hill
of Aaron died they buried him in a hill belonging to Phineas his son which was
belonging to Phineas his son which was
belonging to Phineas his son which was given to him in the mountains of Ephraim